---
title: Go get a real job
categories: [personal]
comments: true
---

At the very end of my diploma, it was mandatory to complete an IT internship. I don't think anyone in my intake actually wanted to do it, but we all knew we signed up for this. I first applied for interesting looking internships at a slow pace. I tried to look for security-related ones of course. Then slowly I started to apply for general positions. Testing, maintenance, support, and then suddenly OhGodTheDueDateIsComingSoonAndNoneOfMyApplicationsAreBeingAccepted.

---

## Place 1: Big City to Get Run Over in

The first place I was accepted to contacted me a month before my starting date. I remember them calling me at 10 am, and I was still in bed because I was (and still am) a complete mess. I woke up in a panic and answered. They must not have realised the state I was in, because they still offered me an online interview. 

The online interview was conducted by a busy sounding woman. Her assistant was the one who called me. The woman, a manager, kept on getting pulled away from the interview. Her assistant ended up interviewing me instead. I thought it went horribly and that they wouldn't accept me because the manager barely spoke to me. I was asked to come for a physical interview the next week. 

The office was in Kuala Lumpur, the big fancy city in Malaysia. I took the train, and walked through a sprawling park, and a driveway that was bigger than a mall. The buiding was almost as big as my university campus. But when I walked inside, I found out the office was one of many in this building. After finally finding my way to the place, I was asked to sit down and wait to get interviewed. 

The office was still a big place. My only experience working was as an assistant at my Mom's workplace, which was admittedly cramped. The unit was extremely modern with glass dividers and abstract patterns on the carpeted floor. I stared at the employees, who were dressed like my dad when he was going to an important meeting. 

A well spoken man then came to interview me. He was the founder of the company, and he was young. The man told me that this company was the partner of the company I originally applied to. The original company, a software provider for hospitals, was founded by the man's father. He founded this company to develop another system for prescriptions. 

It quickly became clear that the intern role was non-technical. The man asked me questions about myself instead of specific skills. He said my website (not this one, the old one) was cool. He thought that *I* was cool. But perhaps not cool enough as my job was an assistant one, making presentations and coffee. I wasn't too upset though, as I was told that nobody in the office had a technical role. The only person remotely close to that was the tester. The system was being developed by a team overseas. The man said I could do testing though.

Other than that he told me I was allowed to work from home. He offered to pay for my transport by train. The salary was enough for an intern. I didn't think the place was bad honestly, not even now as I write this. 

## Place 2: Can I Bring My Buddy Along?

I was fine with the first place, and planned to work there. However the office was way out in the city. My Mom wasn't fond of the place, she said it was too far, and the pay was too low. Usually, I don't get paid at all for sitting at my computer so I thought it was alright. 

My Mom's company was working with another company, some IT place, she said. She gave me an email and told me to apply there before working for the first place. And I did. I had two online interviews. The first was with the CTO. He asked general and vaguely technical questions. I got to ask him questions too. The company was doing digital legal services (I'm trying to reveal as little as possible). For the second interview, the project leader interviewed me. He asked me to showcase my projects. I might have fumbled a little bit, and he didn't look impressed either. I thought I bombed it. Then the next day I got an email inviting me to work there.

Intern requirements are pretty low I guess.

I'll address the elephant in the room. My mom had connections to this company, which is why I got accepted. This statement is a hundred percent true, and I won't even try to deny it. I felt horrible about making use of my Mom like that for a bit, until I realised my other classmates with good internship positions got there due to connections as well. You gotta know people to know people. 

At the end of the interview, I was asked if I had any other classmates who'd like an internship at this company. I immediately let my friend know. He too was struggling to find an internship, and there was no way I'd survive at a workplace without someone to talk for me. It was a win-win situation. This place was much closer to my house, and had better pay as well. But you can still guess where I ended up at, if you'd like.

---

## So I Just Sit Around and Get Paid?

The first week at Place 2 was very exciting. There were no distractions, my friend and I were immediately asked to run through tests on a webapp. And we did a pretty good job, at least we were told. We tested the system and wrote reports, which took two days. We then had to present our findings, and we did find some interesting things. The project leader, who looked unimpressed with my projects, gave us a thumbs up. A double thumbs up.

After that, we had to set up 'sequential emails'. We found out those were just those automated emails you'd get after signing up for something you'd only use once. We wrote and designed those. Supervisors thought the designs were good, and stuck us on more design jobs. And that took up the majority of our work from then on, writing and design.

I will admit it was a bit of a blow to my ego, whom expected me to start out with a super technical hacky job. But everyone starts somewhere, and that somewhere could also be at a desk creating phone mockups with the free version of Canva. It wasn't bad though. The office was nicer than the other, even if it didn't have carpet flooring. I got my own desk, and was placed next to the project leader for a while. While he sat next to me, I shook with incompetence. I don't know if he noticed, but he eventually moved elsewhere and I was grateful for it.

Aside from designing literally everything under the sun, we were also asked to write 'competitor analysis reports'. I later found out this was a business thing, and that's around the time I started to fall asleep writing those reports. We had to write a lot. Whether it was an article for their website, or a social media post, the fingers on the keyboard never stopped moving. 

The most 'technical' task we were given was, funnily, copywriting. Advanced copywriting. Our CTO wanted us to scrape a bunch of contacts off of websites to add to his database. I actually learned something useful from this task, and it was quite fun. The finished scraper is on my Github, and if you're bored enough you can [try it here](https://github.com/Wowiee3/FA_Scraper).

